Game Help | Achaea
Skip to content
Play more great MUDs from
Iron Realms Entertainment!
Aetolia
Lusternia
Menu
Play!
Game
Features Overview
City-States
Classes
Races
The Gods of Achaea
History & Mythos
Achaea Maps
Portal
Game Messages
Game News
Game Logs
Community
Forums
Using The Forums
Join us on Discord!
Achaea Wiki
Latest News
Help
Game Help Files
Frequently Asked Questions
Newbie Guides
How to Connect
Extensions
Support
Credits
Log In
Achaea Help Files
Achaea has hundreds of help files to you learn about Achaea. This is a copy of the in-game help file structure. HELP in-game will show you this same menu.
Help:
[
Return to Help Index
]
1.11.1 Screenreader Guide
Welcome to
Achaea
! This
help
file is a
guide
to help new players
who
use screenreaders become acquainted with Achaea first and cut down on unnecessary information until you become more familiar with the game and the
world
. These tips have been provided by our own players who use screenreaders and are by no means exhaustive, but we hope they will help you get started!
Section 1: Basics
Many help files and instructions provided by the game indicate
commands
that you can type by noting the commands in all capital
letters
. If you are able to
configure
your
screenreader
to
spell
out instances of all capital letters, it may help you
going
forward when
reading
help files or receiving help from
other
players, who tend to use the same convention.
First, to avoid being overwhelmed by excessive text in the game, begin by typing the
following
configuration
options:
CONFIG
SCREENREADER ON
This turns on the screen reader configuration in the game and helps reduce the excess text clutter you
might
otherwise receive.
CONFIG MAPSHOW OFF
This turns off the graphical ASCII
map
the game provides, which can be confusing for a screenreader.
CONFIG ROOMDESC BRIEF
This makes it so that when you first
walk
into a room, you only see the
title
of the room, and the items,
mobiles
, and players in the room. You will not see the entire several sentences long
description
of the room. You can always
look
at the entire description of a room by typing LOOK while in the room.
Section
2
:
Communication
To cut down on excessive text for the
time
being from the various communication
channels
players use, it can be helpful to begin by turning off certain channels. Once you are more adjusted, you can turn the ones you want back on.
Generally, you can turn channels on or off by typing the channel's
name
, then adding OFF or ON without a space after the
channel
name (example: M A R K E T O F F with no spaces).
The
market
channel and
shouts
are already turned off as a novice, but if you're feeling overwhelmed, you can turn off a few additional channels:
CT
(your organisation's main communication channel)
You can turn it off by typing C T O F F with no spaces.
If you are a novice in
Mhaldor
, you are directed to
speak
on
CLT
, rather than CT. If you need to turn this off until you can set up your screenreader, do so with C L T O F F, with no spaces.
TELLS
, which are direct in-
character
messages
from other players. These may be very useful to ask for help and turning them off is not recommended. There is also some more information below in this file.
If you do need to turn TELLS off, however, you can turn them off with T E L L S O F F with no spaces.
Again, to turn these channels back on, type the channel name, then, without a space, type ON instead of OFF.
You might
wish
to turn TELLS, CT (and/or CLT) back on sooner rather than later. These channels are where other players may offer you help. Asking
questions
through these channels can help you become familiar with and
connect
with people in your organisation.
NEWBIE
is a useful channel that should not be turned off unless you really intend and wish to. It is your primary source of help as a newbie, and you will receive tips both from players and from newbie
Guides
(whose
names
are
Romeo
and
Juliet
).
To speak on any channel, you may simply type the name of the channel, followed by what you wish to
say
. For example, to speak on the NEWBIE channel, you can type NEWBIE, followed by what you wish to say.
Sometimes you might receive a
TELL
from someone, which is a private whisper someone sends directly to you while they and you are both in the game. The tell may sound like this, for example:
Juliet tells you, "Hello."
If someone sends you a tell and you would like to respond, simply type REPLY, then type the
message
you would like to send to the person. You can also initiate a tell to someone by typing TELL, and then the character's name, and then the message you would like to say to the person. If you cannot get the spelling of the character's name from initial
pronunciation
(as a lot of people do have strange names), you may wish to have your screenreader spell out the name for you so you can
reach
the correct person. This is also a good strategy for items, rooms, or non-player characters with strange names you wish to interact with throughout the game.
Sometimes players may try to send you a tell with extra
punctuation
indicating they are trying to
talk
to you on an out-of-character basis rather than an in-character basis. This is usually indicated by them surrounding their words with double parentheses, or by prefacing their words with double forward slashes, or by prefacing their words with "
OOC
:". If you are able to configure your screenreader or your
MUD
client
to
read
those particular conformations of punctuation and give you the indication that it is out-of-character information, please do so! Examples are:
Juliet tells you, "(( Hello. ))"
Juliet tells you, "// Hello."
Juliet tells you, "OOC: Hello."
If you did not hear your screen reader read the double parentheses in the first line above, or the double slashes in the second line above, then
consider
reconfiguring your screen reader settings until you are able to do so.
It is also highly recommended that you type J O I N V I P, or
JOIN
VIP, with a space between the N in join and the V in VIP. This is a dedicated
clan
for visually impaired players; you can ask for assistance there as well. You will need to type CLAN SWITCH VIP, then type CLT followed by your message or
question
.
Section
3
: MUD
Clients
If you are using the native
Nexus
MUD client in your
web
browser to play Achaea, our players with screenreaders would strongly suggest that you instead use a MUD client program that works with screenreaders. Those clients include: VIPMUD, GMUD, and MUSHCLIENT. This is certainly not an exhaustive list.
If you are familiar with common MUD functions such as gagging lines, using
triggers
, substitutes, and
aliases
, all of these and more that you add to your MUD client
system
may help you manage the flow of information from Achaea for you more easily. Furthermore, sound triggers, where a particular line of text triggers a particular sound, can be extremely useful to help you quickly understand what is going on in the game. So
building
a big
library
of .wav files for your client system can be helpful.
Unfortunately, it is beyond the scope of this help file to
teach
you the specifics of how to work with MUD clients or add aliases, gags, triggers, and sound triggers. But these are
things
you can potentially ask other players to help you with via the NEWBIE channel.
Section 4:
Questing
As a new player, you will be encouraged by the game to start questing and completing your
TASKS
in
Minia
,
Lodi
and other newbie areas.
HELP WHATNOW
is a good place to start, as well as checking your TASKS often to see what is new.
HELP TASKS
is a brief help file that may be easier to understand.
Section
5
: Conclusion
Achaean
players, or adventurers, are very helpful, and so again, if you have any questions, please feel free to ask via the NEWBIE channel. It may be helpful to mention that you are using a screen reader if you are willing to disclose that information. If too many people are
talking
to you at once and you are feeling overwhelmed, you may wish to mention that, or ask people to answer you via tells in a more private way for any questions you may have.
We truly hope that you enjoy the wonderful world of Achaea! We would like to make this text
adventure
as accessible as possible for players who use screen readers. Please feel free to submit any
ideas
you may have to help us do this better by typing
IDEA
, followed by the text of your idea.
Achaea is developed and published by
Iron Realms Entertainment.
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Service
Support
Follow us on Facebook!
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in
settings
.
Accept
Scroll To Top
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Changes