Game Help | Achaea
Skip to content
Play more great MUDs from
Iron Realms Entertainment!
Aetolia
Lusternia
Menu
Play!
Game
Features Overview
City-States
Classes
Races
The Gods of Achaea
History & Mythos
Achaea Maps
Portal
Game Messages
Game News
Game Logs
Community
Forums
Using The Forums
Join us on Discord!
Achaea Wiki
Latest News
Help
Game Help Files
Frequently Asked Questions
Newbie Guides
How to Connect
Extensions
Support
Credits
Log In
Achaea Help Files
Achaea has hundreds of help files to you learn about Achaea. This is a copy of the in-game help file structure. HELP in-game will show you this same menu.
Help:
[
Return to Help Index
]
19.10.26 Logosmas Stockings
Each December in
Achaea
,
stockings
are available in celebration of
Logosmas
!
These are hung up and filled overnight by the jolly and magnanimous
Ironbeard
!
Stockings come in four varieties: Logosmas, Fancy, Grand, and Extravagant, with each subsequent tier yielding greater prizes and rewards than the one before it.
HANG
STOCKING
FOR
ME
- Hang a stocking up for yourself, and it will be filled with a prize on the next new
day
!
HANG STOCKING FOR <adventurer> [ANONYMOUS]
- Hang up a stocking for another adventurer, either openly or anonymously. The lucky recipient will then be able to open it once Ironbeard has been!
STOCKINGS
- See all of your stockings at a glance.
OPEN STOCKING <LOGOSMAS|EMPIRES>
- Once filled, open your stocking for the prize lists below!
- Choose which
talisman
set you
wish
to pull talisman
pieces
from (Logosmas or Empires
talismans
)
- These are consumed once the contents have been removed.
- See HELP EMPIRES TALISMANS or HELP LOGOSMAS TALISMANS for information on the talisman sets.
Gold
and platinum stockings are special and
fill
up only on Christmas and New Year's Day, respectively!
STOCKING PRIZES
===============
Each stocking has a
target
value, and we have a number of prize pools at different
credit
thresholds. Your stocking will pick an item from the bracket it
falls
into by stocking type, and if your stocking's target value has some credit value leftover after your bigger prize has been added, this will be filled from prizes at lower credit thresholds.
A Logosmas Stocking -
Base
Intended Credit Value: 16
Group
of
5
lucrescent nuts, small clay chip, top hat,
elixirs
from the
Shop
of Wonders, pieces for the Logosmas or Empires talisman sets.
A Fancy Stocking - Base Intended Credit Value: 40
Small clay chip, Mayan
crowns
,
artefact
pipes
,
minipet
collection
caches,
phials
of shimmering
ink
, artefact
vials
,
legenddeck
sleeves, gaudy golden candycanes, handfuls of sparkling snow*, pieces for the Logosmas or Empires talisman sets, plus items in the above listing if intended value is not reached.
A Grand Stocking - Base Intended Credit Value: 150
Fire
pendant, rose thorn, ledolian
surcoat
, dragonskin
quiver
, wyrmskin
pack
, focusing lens, Prosperian attractor, goggles of whitesight, incandescent
sigil
, pieces for the Logosmas or Empires talisman sets, plus items in the above listings above if intended value is not reached.
An Extravagant Stocking - Base Intended Credit Value: 550
Eagle's wings, gem of
transmutation
, wand of
portals
, greater stone of wonder, buckawn's amulet, Aldar diadem, bracers of
frost
, wand of reflection, prismatic
ring
,
Shield
of Absorption, lesser lorewarden shard, ranger's bow, mayan bracelets, lesser stone of wonder, hunter's belt, explorer's tome, lasallian lyre, staff of
illusion
, armband of celerity, anklet of dashing, anake's
hood
, mithril spurs, deep red boomerang, pieces for the Logosmas or Empires talisman sets, plus items in the above listings above if intended value is not reached.
There is also a small chance of getting a veil or one of a
selection
of
level
3
statistic
artefacts
in place of the standard prizes in the extravagant stockings.
The base intended credit value is the absolute minimum that the contents of a stocking will be worth, each stocking can definitely be worth more than this amount.
There is a tier 5, but prizes in this category are only attainable via bonus stockings and the special golden and platinum stockings that fill on Christmas and New Year's Day, respectively!
These can contain any of the prizes from tiers 1-4, but also items like the wand of portals, gems of transmutation, and more.
These high tier prizes are guaranteed if your gold or platinum stocking is an extravagant one!
In addition to all of this, gems for the Sceptre of Environments will be awarded as extra prizes that do not count against your stocking's value. See HELP ENVIRONMENT SCEPTRE for all
commands
and syntaxes!
Regular stockings have a chance to give 1 gem, all fancy stockings are guaranteed to contain a gem, grand stockings will
hold
4 or more gems, and extravagant will open for 16 or more gems!
Once again: these gems do not affect the prize value of the stocking.
NOTES:
======
- Logosmas stockings yield the lowest number of talisman pieces and tend to be less valuable (you can still roll big pieces on these, they're just less common than higher tiers).
- Fancy are basically better Logosmas ones. Higher chance at more talisman pieces, better pieces come up more often.
- Grand stockings roll more talisman pieces and if you roll low end pieces will roll additional ones to compensate. They also have a flat chance to guarantee a high end
piece
, but best to
consider
those a bonus when they come up given that its not a sure
thing
.
- Extravagant stockings guarantee you two high end talisman pieces no matter what, and roll you more pieces after those are awarded.
- High end pieces will be pieces from the 1000
credits
and up value talismans.
- Clay chips are able to be won in stockings, these also now
tradein
for UNBOUND credits.
- Artefacts that are found in stockings (where appropriate) will be the special candycane versions from the LOGOSMAS SHOP.
- Stocking purchases DO give credits to the
city
if the purchaser belongs to one.
- A gaudy gold candycane has a credit value of 50 credits, can be traded in, and when used (BREAK CANDYCANE OVER <artefact>) will turn a matching artefact into its Logosmas shop version.
- The sparkling handful of snow has been added to the stocking prize pool. This has a functional credit value of 50 credits and will turn a/an ring, bracelet, pair of boots, pair of wings, earring, pendant, shield, set of robes, suit of
armour
, cloak into a special Logosmas version of itself! PUSH SNOW <itemID>. This item can be traded in via the
promo
tradein
command
and can be traded to
other
players.
Achaea is developed and published by
Iron Realms Entertainment.
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Service
Support
Follow us on Facebook!
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in
settings
.
Accept
Scroll To Top
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Changes