Game Help | Achaea
Skip to content
Play more great MUDs from
Iron Realms Entertainment!
Aetolia
Lusternia
Menu
Play!
Game
Features Overview
City-States
Classes
Races
The Gods of Achaea
History & Mythos
Achaea Maps
Portal
Game Messages
Game News
Game Logs
Community
Forums
Using The Forums
Join us on Discord!
Achaea Wiki
Latest News
Help
Game Help Files
Frequently Asked Questions
Newbie Guides
How to Connect
Extensions
Support
Credits
Log In
Achaea Help Files
Achaea has hundreds of help files to you learn about Achaea. This is a copy of the in-game help file structure. HELP in-game will show you this same menu.
Help:
[
Return to Help Index
]
9.29 FORGING
Command
Summary:
FORGING
LIST
FORGING
SHOW
<descriptor>
FORGINGCOMMS
[descriptor1] [descriptor2] <
weapon
/armour>
FORGE
FOR [descriptor1] [descriptor2] <weapon/armour>
This
help
file
describes
how Forging works and applies to both
Weaponsmithing
and
Armoursmithing
.
Both the
tradeskills
of Weaponsmithing and Armoursmithing are forms of Forging and work substantially the same, except, of course, that
weapons
are made in one and
armour
in the
other
. Anytime this file refers to either weapons or armour, you can assume that the other works the same unless called out otherwise.
Summary
----------------
This is a summary of how the
system
works. Full details are further down the help file.
The Forging tradeskills (Weaponsmithing and Armoursmithing) allow you to create weapons or armour out of
commodities
such as steel, iron, obsidian,
leather
, and so on.
In the
skills
of Weaponsmithing and Armoursmithing, you'll gain the
ability
to forge different kinds of weapons and armour.
To let you customise the appearance of these, you can select up to two adjectives called 'descriptors' from a list you can access via FORGING LIST. Descriptors are words like sharp, radiant, magenta, gigantic, and so on.
Descriptors are assigned to a Smithing
Rank
, from Apprentice Blacksmith up to Master Blacksmith, with more advanced descriptors costing substantially more to use. These correspond to Smithing
Ranks
, and you must be of at least that Smithing Rank to use descriptors of that rank.
Descriptors may also have category-based restrictions, such as being usable only on edged weapons or soft armour.
As you forge items with descriptors, you gain a chance of producing an item with that descriptor more cheaply than otherwise. Eventually, with enough mastery over that descriptor, you gain an opportunity to add 1-
3
stat
points to that item.
How to Forge
----------------
1. Find a forge. You can find these in many places around
Achaea
.
Cities
have them,
Houses
often have them,
Temples
often have them, and so on.
2
. Make sure you have the required commodities for what you'll forge.
You'll discover this by doing FORGINGCOMMS [descriptor1] [descriptor2] <weapon/armour>
Note that while the cost for a weapon or
piece
of armour with low-
level
descriptors is relatively small, the price for high-level descriptors is very high. The fancier you want your armour or weapons to be, the costlier it will be.
3. FORGING LIST will
tell
you what descriptors you have access to.
4. FORGING SHOW <descriptor> will show you the
base
cost for that descriptor and other info where relevant. Note that the cost to use that descriptor on an item is multiplied by the size of the item.
4(a). Item size for a given item type can be viewed in FORGINGCOMMS <weapon/armour>.
5
. You'll now FORGE FOR [descriptor1] [descriptor2] <weapon/armour>. The descriptors are both optional.
6
. You will then
go
about forging the item. If you do most other actions or are interrupted too much, your forging will also be interrupted, and you'll have to start over, though your
comms
will not have been used up.
7. Your item is now done!
Smithing Rank
-------------------
All Smiths start out as Apprentice Blacksmiths. From there you may rise to:
*
Journeyman
Blacksmith
* Blacksmith
* Artisan Metalworker
* Virtuoso Blacksmith
* Master Blacksmith
Your Smithing Rank will increase as you forge items, and each new rank unlocks a new set of descriptors for you to use. Generally, the more expensive the item you're forging, the more it'll help you
move
to the next rank.
There are also two more ranks:
* Grandmaster Blacksmith
* Legendary Blacksmith
See below for information on these ranks, as they're not achieved in the same way as other ranks.
Mastering Descriptors
---------------------
Every
time
you forge an item with a particular descriptor, you increase the chance that the next time you forge an item with that descriptor, it'll be cheaper and eventually, you start getting chances for your item to have extra stat points added onto it. For weapons, this ranges from 1 to 3; for armour, it ranges from 1 to 2.
All the various types of items you can forge have a size, with that size helping to determine how many comms an item will cost to forge (along with the descriptors used). Whenever you forge an item with a descriptor, let's
say
'radiant'. The first time you forge it, you have 0 points in 'radiant'. After forging one item of size 6 with the radiant descriptor, you'd have 6 points in
'radiant'.
Each time you forge an item with 'radiant'
going
forward, you'll have a chance equal to (points/6), with a max of 50%, of having the item cost you in comms as if it were one size less. In this case, that's only a 1% chance, but as you forge further items with radiant, that chance will increase until you get to 300 points and hit the effective max.
Once you get to 300 points in a descriptor, you're considered Expert in it and may begin working towards Master in that descriptor, which requires an additional 300 points for a max of 600 points.
After you have some Master points in a descriptor, you start having a chance to get an extra stat
point
on that item. If you have two descriptors that you're already Expert in and working towards Master on, you have a chance for up to three extra stat points, which are randomly assigned except for the fact that all three will never end up on the same stat. It works as such:
* Each descriptor gives you a chance of ((points-300)/6) to get an extra stat point.
* If both descriptors give your item an extra stat point AND you are a Grandmaster Blacksmith, there's a 50% chance for a third point. If you're a Legendary instead of a Grandmaster Blacksmith, the chance goes up to 75%.
Grandmaster and Legendary Ranks
-------------------------------
However, these advanced ranks are not achieved in the same way as the other ranks. You must be a Master Blacksmith to attain these two ranks in addition to:
* For Grandmaster, you acquire 60 Grandmaster points. These are obtained through mastering descriptors (see below). For every descriptor mastered, you'll get the
following
Grandmaster points:
Rank 1 Descriptor = 0 points
Rank 2 Descriptor = 1 points
Rank 3 Descriptor = 2 points
Rank 4 Descriptor = 6 points
Rank 5 Descriptor = 20 points
Rank 6 Descriptor = 30 points
* For Legendary Blacksmith, you must achieve 200 Grandmaster points.
* As a Grandmaster Blacksmith, your chances of getting stat bonuses due to Mastered descriptors are 65% per descriptor instead of 50%, AND when you get two additional stat points, you have a 50% chance of a third.
* As a Legendary Blacksmith, your chances of getting an additional stat point when both your descriptors produce one are up to 75%. Plus, ALL descriptors are treated as mastered for the extra stat point calculation (but not regarding the chance of creating an item that costs as if it were one size smaller).
These are the
abilities
available in Weaponsmithing.
---------------------------------------------------
Fire
How to set
forges
to burning.
Dirk                A weapon made for stabbing.
Spear               The standard weapon of the footman.
Shortsword          A smaller version of the longsword.
Axe                 The handaxe; made for
throwing
.
Dagger              Obsidian throwing daggers.
Whip                The feared weapon of those
who
practice
serpentry.
Lash                A lighter
style
of whip.
Talons              Steel talons to
equip
falcons with.
Morningstar
An iron ball connected to a handle by a chain.
Warhammer           A large bludgeoning weapon.
Rapier              The weapon of the cultured urbanite.
Javelin
Nothing
hurts quite as much as being hit by a javelin.
Flail               A wicked-
looking
variation on a morningstar.
Trident             Oftentimes the favourite weapon of gladiators.
Battleaxe           Favoured weapon of the mountain dwarves.
Bastard             The
famous
Delosian bastard swords.
Lance               Weapon of the mounted
knight
.
Scimitar            A very effective curved sword favoured in the south.
Broadsword          A popular variation on the longsword.
Longsword           The standard against which all is based.
Smelting            Smelt a weapon back to some useful commodities.
Pry                 Create a tool suitable for removing paragons from armour.
These are the abilities available in Armoursmithing.
---------------------------------------------------
Fire                How to set forges to burning.
Buckler             The smallest
shield
.
Leatherarmour       A suit of leather armour.
Cavalry             A small shield, but more effective than the buckler.
Ringmail            Armour composed of overlapping rings of metal.
Banded              A shield of reasonable effectiveness.
Clotharmour         The most basic of armours.
Scalemail           Armour made of overlapping scales of metal and leather.
Kite                A large, protective shield.
Chainmail           Armour made of interlocking rings of metal.
Tower               The largest and most cumbersome shield.
Splintmail          Good armour made of strips of metal and leather.
Fieldplate          The most common, but still very good, form of platemail.
Tank
The deadly weapons of
war
.
Restore             Repairing damaged
gear
.
Fullplate           The most magnificent armour.
Smelting            Smelt a piece of armour back to some useful commodities.
Embrasuring         Add an embrasure to a forged piece of armour.
Achaea is developed and published by
Iron Realms Entertainment.
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Service
Support
Follow us on Facebook!
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in
settings
.
Accept
Scroll To Top
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Changes