Game Help | Achaea
Skip to content
Play more great MUDs from
Iron Realms Entertainment!
Aetolia
Lusternia
Menu
Play!
Game
Features Overview
City-States
Classes
Races
The Gods of Achaea
History & Mythos
Achaea Maps
Portal
Game Messages
Game News
Game Logs
Community
Forums
Using The Forums
Join us on Discord!
Achaea Wiki
Latest News
Help
Game Help Files
Frequently Asked Questions
Newbie Guides
How to Connect
Extensions
Support
Credits
Log In
Achaea Help Files
Achaea has hundreds of help files to you learn about Achaea. This is a copy of the in-game help file structure. HELP in-game will show you this same menu.
Help:
[
Return to Help Index
]
17.3.4.1 HOW DO YOU PLAY CHESS?
01) How many players take part in a game of
chess
?
Chess is played by two opponents, one of whom plays the
light
pieces
, and
one of whom plays the dark pieces.
02) What kind of
board
is used?
The board used in chess is made up of 64 squares, alternately coloured
light and dark. It is a grid of 8 squares by 8 squares, and all the squares are
used in play.
03) Is there any special way that the board is placed?
Yes. If each player is sitting behind his own pieces, the bottom-right
square for each will be light.
04)
Who
makes the first
move
?
The light-coloured player always makes the first move.
05) How do you
tell
who gets which colour?
When you begin the game, you will be randomly assigned one of the two
colours.
06) What pieces does each player have at the beginning?
Each player has 16 pieces: 8 pawns,
2
rooks, 2
knights
, 2 bishops, 1
queen and 1 king. When you use the DISPLAY_BOARD
command
, you will see that a
player's pieces are arranged, from his
point
of view as such:
pawn   pawn   pawn   pawn   pawn   pawn   pawn   pawn
rook
knight
bishop queen  king   bishop knight rook
When setting up a chessboard, simply remember that each queen starts on her
own colour, and each king starts on the opposite colour. Thus, a player's king
will be lined up directly across from his opponent's king.
07) What is capturing, and how is it done?
Capturing is a move that involves removing an
enemy
piece
from the board.
In chess, all capturing is done by displacement of the captured piece (NOT by
leaping over it). When you capture in chess, you
remove
the enemy piece and
place your own capturing piece on the same square. If more than one capture is
possible, only one of them can be made on any given move. The King, Queen,
Rook, Bishop, and Knight capture in the same way that they move. This means
that they can make captures that are within their
moving
range (which we will
discuss later). The Pawn's method of capture differs from its ordinary move,
however.
08) Can you move a piece to a square that's already occupied by one of your
own pieces?
Never.
09) Can you by-pass one of your own, or an opponent's piece in a move?
Only the Knight may leap over
other
pieces (and remember, that does not
constitute a capture).
10) How does the King move and capture?
The King
moves
one square in any
direction
, forwards, backwards,
sideways, or diagonally. The King can thus capture an enemy piece which is on
an adjacent square.
11) How does the Rook move and capture?
The Rook can move any number of squares on a horizontal or vertical line
(provided there are no pieces in the way). It can only move EITHER horizontally
or vertically at a
time
though. It captures in the same way that it moves.
12) How does the Bishop move and capture?
The Bishop moves only on diagonals. It can move any number of squares
along a diagonal, so long as its path is not obstructed. It can only move one
direction at a time. It captures in the same way that it moves.
13) How does the Queen move and capture?
The Queen's may, in a single turn, make a move that is EITHER like that
of a Bishop or like that of a Rook. She captures in the same way. She is the
most powerful piece on the board.
14) How does the Knight move and capture?
The Knight's move is different in principle from that of all the other
pieces. The move of the Knight is always of the same length: three squares that
form an "L". So, for instance, one square forward, and two to either side, or
two moves backwards and one to either side. The Knight is the only piece that
can leap over friendly or hostile pieces on the intermediate squares of his
move. If his
destination
square is occupied by a hostile piece, then he
captures it. If it is occupied by a friendly piece, then he may not move there.
One handy rule to keep in mind about the Knight's
movement
is that he always
ends on a square of a different colour from that which he started on.
15) How does a Pawn move?
The Pawn moves forward vertically one square at a time. Light pawns move
towards the Dark side, and vice-versa. The exception to this rule is that if a
Pawn has not yet been moved, the player has the option of moving it two squares
forward on his first move. The Pawn can _never_ move backwards. A Pawn may
_never_ capture while moving vertically. It captures diagonally only. (see the
next
question
)
16) How does a Pawn capture?
While the Pawn may only move vertically, it may only capture diagonally.
It may capture any hostile piece which is on a square diagonally forward of the
Pawn, and immediately adjacent to the Pawn.
17) Can Pawns get any more crazy?
Yes, definitely. There is one further rule with pawns, called "en
passant" ("in passing" in
translation
to English). En passant works as such: If
one player (let's
say
the Dark player) has a pawn that he has not yet moved
yet, and the other player (the Light player in this case) has a pawn that is
two away from him vertically, and one away horizontally, then if the Dark
player exercises his option to move his pawn two forward at once, the Light
player may capture the Dark pawn _as if it had only moved one forward_. In
other words, if the Dark player moved his pawn two forward, the Light player
could capture his Pawn by moving it onto the same column as the Dark pawn, and
one forward, ie where the Dark pawn would have been had it moved one space
instead of two. The Dark pawn is thus captured. It should be noted that En
Passant is optional.
18
) What happens if a Pawn makes it all the way down to the other side?
If a Pawn reaches the other side of the board (or the "last rank"), then
it will be promoted automatically to a Queen. This is, obviously, a VERY
powerful move to be able to make.
19
) Are there any other ways to move?
Yes, there is one final way to move, called Castling. Castling is the
only double move allowed in chess. It involves a move both with your King and
with one of the Rooks. Both moves count for a single move.
In order to castle, the
following
conditions must be met:
1) Your king must not have moved yet that game.
2) The rook you
wish
to castle with must not have moved yet that game.
3
) There must be no intervening pieces between your king and the rook
you wish to castle with.
4) None of the squares that the king moves over or lands on may be
threatened by an enemy piece.
5
) You must not currently be in check.
What castling actually is is moving your king 2 squares towards the rook
that you're
going
to castle with, and then moving that rook next to the king,
but on the other side. So, if you castle "king side", you will move your king
over two to the right, and move the rook on your right two squares to the left.
If you castle "queen side", then you will move your king two over to the left,
and move the rook on your left three squares to the right.
20) Is there a standard
system
of notation used to indicate moves?
Yes. In order to specify a square on the board, we need to know what FILE
(column) it is on, and what
RANK
(row) it is on.  Achaeans use two different
methods of notation to do this.
One, called descriptive notation, is based on the
names
of the pieces and
the places that they occupy in the opening position. The other is called
algebraic notation.
From right to left, (notation is done relative to your side), in
descriptive notation, the files (columns) are:
QR QKT QB Q K KB KKT KR
(meaning Queen's rook, Queen's Knight, Queen's Bishop, Queen, King,
King's Bishop, King's Knight, King's Rook).
Similarly, from right to left, the files in algebraic notation are:
A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H
To indicate which rank the square is on, we merely append a number, 1-8,
to it. So, for instance, the left-hand rook begins at QR1 (or A1), while the
pawn that starts in front of the knight on the King side is KKT2 (or G2).
It is important to remember that position names are given relative to
either the Light or Black side. QR1 (A1) for the Light side is QR8 (H8) for the
black side.
So, let's say you want to move the pawn in front of your king two squares
forward. You would type MOVE K2 TO K4, or MOVE E2 TO E4.
If you wish to king-side castle, do MOVE 0-0. If you wish to queen-side
castle, do MOVE 0-0-0.
21) How do you
win
?
You win by
attacking
your opponent's King in such a way that no matter
what move he makes, his King will still be under
attack
.
22) What is meant by checkmate?
Checkmate is the situation described in the previous answer: a King is
being attacked and there is no way to move out of range of enemy forces.
23) What is meant by check?
Any move that
attacks
a King is called a "check". If the King can
escape
(whether by movement or by blocking the attack with another piece, or by
capturing the attacking piece), the game goes on.
24) How long can you stay in check?
When you are placed in check, you must move to prevent check on your very
next move.
25) Can you move your King INTO check?
Never. You may never move your King into a square that an enemy piece may
reach
.
26) What are the different kinds of check?
Usually, check results when a piece moves to a square from which it
attacks the hostile King. There are, however, two special kinds of check.
Discovered check results from the removal of a piece that has been
masking an attack on the hostile King. In other words, the checking piece
stands still and another piece ceases to block that attack.
Double check is a form of discovered check. The double check comes about
when the unblocking piece also gives check as it opens up a check from its
comrade that it has been blocking. Note that the only way to escape double
check is to move your King to a safe square.
27) What is meant by stalemate?
Stalemate results when a player whose turn it is to move, and whose King
is _not_ in check, has only moves left that would place his King in check. This
rule was devised about a thousand years ago, by Nicator, in order to penalize
inept play. In a stalemate situation, the game is a
draw
. Neither side wins. In
this situation in chess in
Achaea
, one side should simply use the CONCEDE
command to end the game, but neither side actually wins.
28) What is perpetual check?
When one player can check endlessly so that his opponent's King cannot
escape the checks, but the player cannot get the opponent's King in checkmate,
you have a draw by perpetual check. Again, one of the two players should just
use the concede command to end the game, as no one can win.
29) Are there any other types of drawn
games
?
Yes. When the same position has been repeated twice, with the same player
on the move each time, and it is just about to be repeated for the third time,
the player whose turn it is to move can
claim
a draw before making the move
that will produce the threefold repitition. Someone should just use the CONCEDE
command in this circumstance (though again, with the understanding that no one
lost
or won).
If 50 moves are made without a capture or a Pawn move having been made,
the game will be called a draw automatically.
Finally, it is a draw if neither side has sufficient material left to get
his opponent in checkmate. (see the next question)
30) What is the minimum amount of material needed to force a checkmate?
Checkmate can be forced with the following minimum material:
a) King and Queen against King
b) King and Rook against King
c) King and two bishops against King
d) King and Bishop and Knight against King
If you have a King and Pawn against King, you can win in most cases by
forcing the advance of the Pawn to the last rank and promoting it to a Queen.
The following circumstances are inadequate to force checkmate:
a) King and Bishop against King
b) King and Knight against King
c) King and two Knights against King
In almost all cases, having an extra pawn will enable you to win with
this material by advancing the pawn to the last rank and thus obtaining a new
Queen.
Achaea is developed and published by
Iron Realms Entertainment.
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Service
Support
Follow us on Facebook!
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in
settings
.
Accept
Scroll To Top
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Changes