Game Help | Achaea
Skip to content
Play more great MUDs from
Iron Realms Entertainment!
Aetolia
Lusternia
Menu
Play!
Game
Features Overview
City-States
Classes
Races
The Gods of Achaea
History & Mythos
Achaea Maps
Portal
Game Messages
Game News
Game Logs
Community
Forums
Using The Forums
Join us on Discord!
Achaea Wiki
Latest News
Help
Game Help Files
Frequently Asked Questions
Newbie Guides
How to Connect
Extensions
Support
Credits
Log In
Achaea Help Files
Achaea has hundreds of help files to you learn about Achaea. This is a copy of the in-game help file structure. HELP in-game will show you this same menu.
Help:
[
Return to Help Index
]
11.7.17 TWILIGHT, GOD OF DARKNESS
Since
time
immemorial, the God of Darkness has existed as a distant, confusing enigma in the
eyes
of mortal kind. He is often hailed as the Lord of Mysteries, for His is the realm of obscurity and intrigue, of boundless shadows, of forbidden knowledge made manifest without the fetters of morality or zealous indignation. Ambitious, all-seeing, and ruthlessly cunning,
Twilight
often chooses to remain aloof, employing proxies and
puppets
to convey His will while the Elder God instead observes silently from the shadows, ever-wreathed in some innocuous
guise
. It is said that when He speaks, it is with a tongue that could spin raw silver, laden with hushed bargains, honeyed promises, and profound, esoteric revelations that when uttered in sibilant whisper topple empires and
crown
fresh kings.
For eons has the great tapestry of
history
felt His touch upon its weave, ensnaring the hearts of Man like flies caught in a silken
web
. A thousand eyes and one has the Dark Lord, His network of operatives united as an invisible
army
whose tendrils
reach
every corner of the known and unknown worlds. Permanent pupils in His Arts of secrecy, deceit, intrigue, conflict, and strife, the agents of Darkness seamlessly blend into society, covertly pulling on the strings of princes and paupers alike to
conduct
His Great Work from everywhere and nowhere all at once. In exchange they receive the gifts of the Dark: the agency to cast off the arbitrary bindings of false religion, the tools to
conquer
the noisome lies of dogmatic faith, and the freedom to bear witness to the ineffable Truth that is Darkness, unbound and unchained from the illusory tyranny that is mortal existence.
Falsely vilified as the Father of Lies, the Dark God alone bestrides the
crucible
of Truth, denouncing the twin atrocities of faith and worship as a lone bulwark of verisimilitude in a
world
tainted by the dangerous fictions of the
Divine
.
Those
who
desire to
walk
His path should seek the Rook of Darkness. The one-eyed woman holds the
key
.
Achaea is developed and published by
Iron Realms Entertainment.
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Service
Support
Follow us on Facebook!
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in
settings
.
Accept
Scroll To Top
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Changes