Game Help | Achaea
Skip to content
Play more great MUDs from
Iron Realms Entertainment!
Aetolia
Lusternia
Menu
Play!
Game
Features Overview
City-States
Classes
Races
The Gods of Achaea
History & Mythos
Achaea Maps
Portal
Game Messages
Game News
Game Logs
Community
Forums
Using The Forums
Join us on Discord!
Achaea Wiki
Latest News
Help
Game Help Files
Frequently Asked Questions
Newbie Guides
How to Connect
Extensions
Support
Credits
Log In
Achaea Help Files
Achaea has hundreds of help files to you learn about Achaea. This is a copy of the in-game help file structure. HELP in-game will show you this same menu.
Help:
[
Return to Help Index
]
12.17.19 The Elemental Fringes
THE ELEMENTAL
FRINGES
At the very borders of Elemental
dominion
lies the Fringes, liminal spaces where primal forces collide, fracture, and reknit themselves in aberrant fusions. Here, the sovereignty of
Kkractle
,
Garash
,
Sllshya
, and
Whiirh
is unrecognized, their
influence
intermingling without structure or coherence, producing warped landscapes and volatile phenomena. Native elementals born of flux prowl these borderlands, their extreme aggression and unstable behavior leading the pure Elements to classify them as
failed
expressions
of form.
In the year 981AF, violent elemental upheavals ripped open several
planar
rifts within the Elemental
Planes
, revealing the Fringes to those of the Prime for the first
time
.
BLISTERWASH
CALDERA
Where
Fire
and Water meet lies Blisterwash Caldera, a geothermal basin cloaked in stinging vapour and hot steam. Shallow pools of sulphuric water
fill
mineral-crusted depressions, displaying a variety of hues from deep reds to sickly yellows and acidic greens. Much of the ground remains dry and brittle despite the surrounding moisture, fractured from persistent cycles of heat and cooling.
You can travel to Blisterwash Caldera through the stabilised rifts at:
'Hot spring on the Grasp' within the Elemental
Plane
of Fire (v52824)
'Irradiated by a dazzling sunbeam' within the Elemental Plane of Water (v53301)
EMBERVEIL
It is within Emberveil that gusts of Air fan the enduring heat of Fire, shaping a
desert
of scorching
winds
and phantasmagorical
light
. Mirage-laden dunes stretch outward in every
direction
, their shifting forms obscuring the true scale of the land. Even the skies are unsettled, with colour and cloud twisting into mountains, fortresses, and
other
impossible forms that
leave
one to wonder which are merely tricks of the desert.
You can travel to Emberveil through the stabilised rifts at:
'Edges of the Blight' within the Elemental Plane of Fire (v52857)
'A sweltering cloud platform' within the Elemental Plane of Air (v65261)
THE
DUSTSONG
SPIRE
Defying the
weight
of Garash, the Dustsong Spire is a high
scrubland
where Air and Earth intermingle across ground and sky. Sparse
shrubs
cling to the flat, arid ground in spite of scouring winds and sudden, violent dust storms. Across the dry plains rise cragged boulders and columns of stone that float mid-air, their porous faces
singing
a hollow song as gusts of
wind
blow through them.
You can travel to the Dustsong Spire through the stabilised rifts at:
'Windswept expanse' within the Elemental Plane of Earth (v53813)
'A rumbling cloud platform' within the Elemental Plane of Air (v65474)
FENROT
GLADE
Where Water festers and Earth
decays
, Fenrot Glade sprawls as a mire of stagnant shallows and choking
muck
. Rotting mangroves stand along an algae-slick shore, their roots buried in
decaying
plant
life and soft, sodden ground. Inland, dried mudflats stretch in cracked plates and ridges, strewn with rocks, roots, and the eroded remains of old mudslides.
You can travel to Fenrot Glade through the stabilised rifts at:
'Beside a small oasis' within the Elemental Plane of Earth (v53753)
'Among pitch-black seaweed' within the Elemental Plane of Water (v53315)
THE
CRUST
Forged of both Fire and Earth, the Crust rises as a jagged monument of searing stone and molten
rage
. Sheer cliffs of blackened rock fracture into crumbling ledges upon the volcano's mountainside, and fiery lava flows cascade downwards in slow, but relentless marches. At its
base
yawns a vast
fissure
, its depths churning with incandescent magma, casting a blistering glare into the
smoke
-choked
environment
.
You can travel to the Crust through the stabilised rifts at:
'Burning crater' within the Elemental Plane of Fire (v34660)
'A parched plain' within the Elemental Plane of Earth (v53843)
ICEFALL
REACH
Bound
by the chill of Air and the frozen depths of Water, Icefall Reach endures as an immense iceberg adrift upon a ceaseless, heaving ocean. From its fractured cliffs rise jagged spires of ice, their surfaces scoured by relentless gales. Storms batter its expanse with snow and sleet, veiling the towering shards and carving new forms into the broken landscape.
You can travel to Icefall Reach through the stabilised rifts at:
'Wind-whipped waves' within the Elemental Plane of Water (v52665)
'A chilly cloud platform' within the Elemental Plane of Air (v65583)
ELEMENTAL PILLARS
Erected and empowered by the actions of adventurers in the year 982AF, the Elemental Pillars found within the Fringes act as stabilising conduits to the pure Elemental Planes. Each area within the Fringes boasts two pillars related to that area's two base elements. For example, a swirling pillar of Sllshya and a fiery pillar of Kkractle in Blisterwash Caldera.
These pillars can be TOUCHed to teleport you to face a paramount elemental in the heart of its domain. Be warned: these elementals are significant
challenges
designed to be fought in
groups
, and their defeat is worthy enough to be noted on one's
honours
.
ELEMENTAL FLUX
While stable enough to be trodden upon, the Elemental Fringes are still volatile landscapes left to the whim of primordial forces. Over time, each area within the Fringes will accumulate Elemental Flux, eventually surpassing a threshold and causing the area's instability to increase.
These different states of Elemental Flux have unique effects on the area:
Low Flux
---
15%
XP
Bonus
Medium Flux
---
25% XP Bonus
More powerful
denizens
are more likely to
spawn
.
Spawn rates are increased.
High Flux
---
50% XP Bonus
More powerful denizens are more likely to spawn.
Spawn rates are increased.
A wandering, honours-
level
boss awakens in the area.
*Area-specific
weather
phenomena
*The effects of the weather phenomena vary between different areas in the Fringes.
Elemental Flux rises naturally over time, though it can be hastened by slaying hybrid elementals within the area. Once an area enters a state of high flux, it will remain in that state for approximately 25
hours
before returning back to low flux. This cycle repeats independently for all areas within the Fringes.
You can use see the flux
status
of the Elemental Fringes using the PLANARFLUX
command
.
Achaea is developed and published by
Iron Realms Entertainment.
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Service
Support
Follow us on Facebook!
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in
settings
.
Accept
Scroll To Top
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Changes