Game Help | Achaea
Skip to content
Play more great MUDs from
Iron Realms Entertainment!
Aetolia
Lusternia
Menu
Play!
Game
Features Overview
City-States
Classes
Races
The Gods of Achaea
History & Mythos
Achaea Maps
Portal
Game Messages
Game News
Game Logs
Community
Forums
Using The Forums
Join us on Discord!
Achaea Wiki
Latest News
Help
Game Help Files
Frequently Asked Questions
Newbie Guides
How to Connect
Extensions
Support
Credits
Log In
Achaea Help Files
Achaea has hundreds of help files to you learn about Achaea. This is a copy of the in-game help file structure. HELP in-game will show you this same menu.
Help:
[
Return to Help Index
]
10.8.3 Conquest
Command
Summary:
REQUESTING A
BEACON
- In your
city
tank
room:
say
I request a beacon
BEACON RAISE -
Holding
the beacon, Raise a beacon in the selected location, starts a countdown
BEACON ATTUNE -
Channel
to
claim
or
steal
beacon
BEACON
STATUS
-
Show
attunement, conditions and beacon location (see the end of this
help
file for conditions and more information)
BEACON FORTIFY - Make all owned
territory
safe for 48
RL
hours
. Must be holding the beacon and in your city
war
room.
CITY
SPIRIT
STATUS - Show beacon timers and availability
CITY
CONQUEST
SCOUT <...> - Send scouts, report returns later
CITY CONQUEST REPORT REVIEW - View scout reports in the warroom
CITY CONQUEST REPORT RETRIEVE - Get report as a hardcopy item
With your city's spirit summoned, you are now poised to lead them out beyond the gates and walls of their home and
conquer
other
areas! During your next Eidolic Phase (see HELP EIDOLIC
INFLUENCE
), an
aide
to the Ministry of
Defence
or a City Leader can visit your city's "spark keeper" and request a beacon. Your city can request only one beacon every three Eidolic Phases (
3
OOC
days
approx), and these beacons
decay
quickly when not in use. You will then take this beacon to an area adjacent to your home city or to a location you have already conquered (geographically and pathing-adjacent).
- Adjacent means both geographically and via pathing. If you cannot
move
into that area via normal
movement
(north/east/southwest/up/in/etc) from the area you are standing in, it is not considered adjacent.
- This adjacent area can be unconquered, or another city-state can have conquered it in the case where you
wish
to
challenge
another's
hold
.
- The area must not have conquest
grace
, such as that conveyed through a recent
liberation
.
- Some rare areas on
Sapience
may be unconquerable for their own reasons!
Use BEACON RAISE in a location that is available to be conquered to begin a 3-
minute
countdown, and prepare your defence.
Once raised, the beacon will be attuned to your city, and a
fight
period
of about 1.
5
hours will begin.
Other
cities
can challenge you during this and use BEACON ATTUNE to claim your beacon for themselves. You can use BEACON ATTUNE to claim it right back if they manage it.
This is a channelled command that must be done in the same room as the beacon.
Periodically, the beacon's attunement will increase. Beacons gain attunement every minute after being placed, and the amount gained is 3% unless it is a beacon in an area allied to a city. In this case, beacons controlled by the allied city gain approximately
6
% per minute. Ie:  A New
Thera
beacon gains 3% per minute when beaconed by someone other than
Ashtan
and 6% per minute when beaconed by Ashtan.
BEACON STATUS will give details on the current attunement and the beacon's location.
When a beacon's attunement reaches maximum:
- If the attunement is to the city that raised the beacon and is ready to conquer, the area will be conquered in their
name
.
- If the attunement is to the city that initially held the area prior to the beacon being raised, the area remains in their
control
.
- If the attunement is to another city that does not have their influence spread to the borders of this area, then the area will remain in its original state.
- If the attunement is not to the city that raised the beacon, but is to a city that is also adjacent and poised to conquer, then one of two
things
will happen:
- If the area is in the attuned city's
doctrine
, it will fall under their influence.
- If it is not in the attuned city's doctrine, it will remain in its original state, but the attuned city will gain bonus spirit.
Liberated territory remembers
who
it was liberated from for four of those organisations' phases after the fact. If that org takes a territory adjacent to the liberated territory in that timeframe, they will reclaim it (assuming no one else has taken it first).
- For example, if
Cyrene
liberates
Moghedu
from
Mhaldor
but then Mhaldor conquers the
Mhojave
, they will take the Mhojave and also flip Moghedu back to them.
When a beacon is raised, everyone in the area is at risk of
attack
. Those attempting to raise the beacon should be ready to defend it.
This is not a bountyable or contractable period UNLESS the area is mutually allied to an organisation attempting to conquer; if so
bounties
may be filed.
If the Eidolic Phase ends while you are attempting to conquer an area, your
attempt
will
fail
.
Fighting
in an area with an active beacon will not generate
infamy
.
Detonating a tank in a conquest now generates hostility (a comparable amount to detonating one in a city, though slightly less overall).
BEACON FORTIFY
Used by the city overseer or the Defence
minister
in the war room, makes all territory they hold unconquerable or liberatable for the next 48 hours.
- You must have a beacon available to use this, and it will prevent you from requesting a beacon during your subsequent 4 phases.
- This will also prevent you from using SANCTION LIBERATION during the fortified countdown.
The availability of your beacons and countdown to your next phase can be viewed with CITY SPIRIT STATUS.
Scouting
CITY CONQUEST SCOUT <all|<city1> [city2] [city...n]>
- Scout the territory of a given organisation or multiple organisations from your city's war room.
- The scouts will
leave
for around an
hour
with some minor fluctuation each way, so it's not entirely predictable. Upon returning, they will file a report on their findings.
- Scouts can only be sent out by the defence minister, an aide or a city leader.
- There is a fee of 10,000
gold
per organisation scouted, drawn from the defence budget.
CITY CONQUEST REPORT REVIEW
- Review the scout's findings.
CITY CONQUEST REPORT RETRIEVE
- If you want a hard copy of the report, this removes the report from the war room (so REPORT REVIEW no longer will show it) and gives you an item with all the relevant information written on it.
- Be warned, these reports drop from you on
death
/
logout
by
design
, so keep your secrets safe!
- Additionally, while sending scouts is gated by
citizenship
and
rank
, reviewing and retrieving reports can be done by any
citizen
, including those from other cities.
Beacon Conditions:
Flux: Every minute, the Eidolic beacon in this area has a chance to move to a new location.
Khentimen's Curse: The curse of Khentimen shall make it so
moving
throughout an area becomes very difficult. Indeed, you may find that every step becomes quite the
trial
...
Effect: A chance to be hindered at each step while moving through the area.
Kasmarkin's Doom: There can be no
escape
from the doom which awaited fallen
Kasmarkin
, and all who stand within the influence of the beacon will find that magic travel over any kind of distance will be denied them entirely.
Effect: No magical travel, includes (but is not limited to): wings, earrings,
portals
Errikale's Cunning: All that move through the influence of this beacon shall find that they are able to evade blows from multiple foes who seek to strike them at once with supreme ease. However, a lone warrior is just as deadly as ever.
Effect: Many people on one
target
are much less effective than single
combat
.
Purity of Mind: All that stand within the influence of the beacon will find their minds pure of unwanted thoughts entirely. So much so that telepathic
communication
of any kind will become impossible.
Effect: No telepathic communication at all, including
party
tells
.
Yen-Sorte's Folly: All that are within the influence of the beacon will find themselves suffused with resistance to damage of all kinds and will be cleansed of
afflictions
periodically. Such
power
could make you feel invincible!
Effect: Damage reduction and a chance to have afflictions removed.
Heretical
Rejection
:
Shrines
within the influence of the beacon will be cut off from their source of power, and will convey no miracle, greater or lesser, upon believer or heretic alike.
Effect: No
shrine
usage.
Rampant Paranoia: Everyone within the influence of the beacon raised in this area shall find they cannot help but
consider
everyone else an
enemy
, regardless of affiliation.
Effect: Everyone is considered an enemy.
The Finality's Vigil: The
Finality
observes this location, and as a result no forms of
resurrection
, be they starburst or higher methods will avail those that perish. Further, any who fall will be immediately pulled into the
embrace
of death.
Effect: Upon being killed, you will immediately embrace death.
Peerless Grace: So graceful and fleet of foot will those who stand within the influence of the beacon be, that they will find that no forms of room hinder, passive or active, will keep them from
leaving
the location if they so desire.
Effect: No room hinder
Vakha's Struggle: Ever shifting and
changing
to thwart that which would lay them low, those that find themselves in the influence of this power shall soon
learn
a taste of what it means to confront the first to dwell in the darkest depths.
Effect: Rotating damage resistance to certain elemental types.
Last Updated: 12/17/2025
Achaea is developed and published by
Iron Realms Entertainment.
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Service
Support
Follow us on Facebook!
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in
settings
.
Accept
Scroll To Top
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Changes