Game Help | Achaea
Skip to content
Play more great MUDs from
Iron Realms Entertainment!
Aetolia
Lusternia
Menu
Play!
Game
Features Overview
City-States
Classes
Races
The Gods of Achaea
History & Mythos
Achaea Maps
Portal
Game Messages
Game News
Game Logs
Community
Forums
Using The Forums
Join us on Discord!
Achaea Wiki
Latest News
Help
Game Help Files
Frequently Asked Questions
Newbie Guides
How to Connect
Extensions
Support
Credits
Log In
Achaea Help Files
Achaea has hundreds of help files to you learn about Achaea. This is a copy of the in-game help file structure. HELP in-game will show you this same menu.
Help:
[
Return to Help Index
]
10.8.4 Liberation
HELP LIBERATION
Command
Summary:
SANCTION
LIBERATION
- Start a liberation
attempt
in the area
ACTIVATE
TANK
- Place the tank in the
target
area, after the liberation has been sanctioned. Gated by
Defence
Aide
, AR3 or
city
overseer
PRIME <tank> - Prime a tank for liberation use, 48hr priming, with 24 hr use
time
DETONATE TANK - Detonate the charged tank to
liberate
the area
SURVEY -
Shows
tank location within the area and any area conditions applied by the liberation.
If you
wish
to liberate an area, your
Minister
of Defence, City Leader, or a Defence Aide must SANCTION LIBERATION in the area during the conquering city's Eidolic Phase.
Only orgs with
territory
status
or higher are liberatable to make it easier to
fight
back from a reset.
An area may be liberated only if one of the
following
facts is true:
It has only one adjacent conquerable area. I.e., any dead-end area can always be liberated (e.g.,
Moghedu
). Note that unconquerable areas do not count for this calculation, so if an area has two areas off it, but one is immune to
conquest
, that is a dead-end area.
The organisation that holds the area has fewer than two conquerable areas adjacent under its
control
. The cities' proper do not count towards this
metric
, as they are unconquerable.
For example, if
Targossas
holds
Jaru
,
Pash
Valley, and the Great Southern Road, Jaru cannot be liberated because Pash Valley (1) and the Great Southern Road (
2
) are adjacent. Jaru would become vulnerable again if either is liberated.
Hostile orgs have the same number of territories as the adjacent controlling org. This one should not come into play very often.
The sanction liberation command has a 24
RL
hour
cooldown once used. This command begins a
5
minute
countdown. Once the timer completes, one of the
ranking
liberating leaders will need to ACTIVATE TANK at a location within the conquered area. Be prepared to defend the location against the city currently
holding
the territory.
This tank will need to be specially prepared beforehand:
-
Forge
and charge a tank as usual. Once fully tended and charged, then you can PRIME <tank>. 48 RL
hours
later, the tank is primed. If you do not use it within 24 RL hours, it will burn out and disappear.
- Retrieve tank, etc., is smart; it will not use your liberation tanks for
raids
or raid tanks for liberations.
- Primed or priming tanks do not count towards your tank cap (so you can start tending a new one after you begin priming). The location of your tank will be displayed on SURVEY for those nearby.
- Defend and charge this tank. It will only charge to
level
one. You can only place one tank. Deaths and time will contribute to the charging. The number of deaths and the time required will increase as your city conquers more areas.
- The sanction will last 100
minutes
, or until the tank is detonated/disarmed/captured, whichever happens first.
- DETONATE TANK to liberate the area once your tank is charged.
These tanks can be captured and disarmed, as is normal. Doing so will end the liberation attempt. All tank-related
channels
will take longer to use outside the city. If the Eidolic Phase ends while you are attempting to liberate an area, the attempt will
fail
. Any city can disarm or capture, but only the city that sanctions the liberation attempt can place the tank. When a tank is deployed, everyone in the area is at risk of
attack
; those attempting to liberate the area should be prepared to defend.
NOTE: This is not a bountyable or contractable
period
UNLESS the area is mutually allied to the city that holds the area; in that case, a liberation attempt is an overtly hostile action against the city, and
bounties
may be filed.
For example, if
Mhaldor
is attempting to liberate New
Thera
from Ashtani occupation (New Thera is mutual
allies
with
Ashtan
), Ashtan may file bounties on those
who
get involved. But, if Ashtan is attempting to liberate the
Shamtota
Hills from
Eleusis
, Eleusis may not file bounties against those who
challenge
their
hold
.
A few additional notes:
- Sanctioning liberations generates hostility between the sanctioning org and the current owner of the target area (the same amount as sanctioning a raid).
- Liberation
attempts
have a chance to
fire
under certain conditions similar to conquests. The conditions will not occur until the tank is placed. SURVEY shows which conditions are active for a given liberation.
- You can use the adaptation
investment
on your own
beacon
/liberation attempts if desired (
HELP SPIRIT
for information on investments).
When an area is liberated, all adjacent areas held by the defeated organisation are granted protection from liberation - this
grace
period is roughly 20 RL hours. Note that this only prevents liberation initiation - if those areas are already being liberated, those liberations will resolve as normal. This prevents you from taking an area that protects another, then taking the newly vulnerable area in the same phase.
Liberated territory remembers who it was liberated from for four of that organisations' phases after the fact. If that org takes a territory adjacent to the liberated territory in that timeframe, they will reclaim it (assuming no one else has taken it first).
For example, if
Cyrene
liberates Moghedu from Mhaldor but Mhaldor then conquers the
Mhojave
, they will take the Mhojave and flip Moghedu back to them.
Liberation Conditions:
Khentimen's Curse: The curse of Khentimen shall make it so
moving
throughout an area becomes very difficult. Indeed, you may find that every step becomes quite the
trial
...
Effect: A chance to be hindered at each step while moving through the area.
Kasmarkin's Doom: There can be no
escape
from the doom which awaited fallen
Kasmarkin
, and all who stand within the
influence
of the beacon will find that magic travel over any kind of distance will be denied them entirely.
Effect: No magical travel, includes (but is not limited to): wings, earrings,
portals
Errikale's Cunning: All that
move
through the influence of this beacon shall find that they are able to evade blows from multiple foes who seek to strike them at once with supreme ease. However, a lone warrior is just as deadly as ever.
Effect: Many people on one target are much less effective than single
combat
.
Purity of Mind: All that stand within the influence of the beacon will find their minds pure of unwanted thoughts entirely. So much so that telepathic
communication
of any kind will become impossible.
Effect: No telepathic communication at all, including
party
tells
.
Yen-Sorte's Folly: All that are within the influence of the beacon will find themselves suffused with resistance to damage of all kinds and will be cleansed of
afflictions
periodically. Such
power
could make you feel invincible!
Effect: Damage reduction and a chance to have afflictions removed.
Heretical
Rejection
:
Shrines
within the influence of the beacon will be cut off from their source of power, and will convey no miracle, greater or lesser, upon believer or heretic alike.
Effect: No
shrine
usage.
Rampant Paranoia: Everyone within the influence of the beacon raised in this area shall find they cannot
help
but
consider
everyone else an
enemy
, regardless of affiliation.
Effect: Everyone is considered an enemy.
The Finality's Vigil: The
Finality
observes this location, and as a result no forms of
resurrection
, be they starburst or higher methods will avail those that perish. Further, any who fall will be immediately pulled into the
embrace
of
death
.
Effect: Upon being killed, you will immediately embrace death.
Peerless Grace: So graceful and fleet of foot will those who stand within the influence of the beacon be, that they will find that no forms of room hinder, passive or active, will keep them from
leaving
the location if they so desire.
Effect: No room hinder
Vakha's Struggle: Ever shifting and
changing
to thwart that which would lay them low, those that find themselves in the influence of this power shall soon
learn
a taste of what it means to confront the first to dwell in the darkest depths.
Effect: Rotating damage resistance to certain elemental types.
Last Updated: 12/17/2025
Achaea is developed and published by
Iron Realms Entertainment.
Privacy Policy
Terms Of Service
Support
Follow us on Facebook!
We are using cookies to give you the best experience on our website.
You can find out more about which cookies we are using or switch them off in
settings
.
Accept
Scroll To Top
Close GDPR Cookie Settings
Privacy Overview
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies so that we can provide you with the best user experience possible. Cookie information is stored in your browser and performs functions such as recognising you when you return to our website and helping our team to understand which sections of the website you find most interesting and useful.
Strictly Necessary Cookies
Strictly Necessary Cookie should be enabled at all times so that we can save your preferences for cookie settings.
Enable or Disable Cookies
Enabled
Disabled
Enable All
Save Changes